- [Instructor] Okay, so the JSON-B Default Mapping Types
that we have is it can map an object for you,
map a single bean or a complete hierarchy of objects
or a complete collection of objects
the way we saw in the previous example.
It can also map a collection.
And I'm talking about an open collection,
which can accept any kind of value
that you feed into it.
So when you talk about collections in Java,
you have Lists, Sets, and Maps.
All of these can be very comfortably mapped
using the JSON binding API.
And then you can also map a generics collection.
And that is interesting, because when you talk about
generics collection you have
List, Set, and Map instances
with specific type of objects that you add into it.
So we have already seen the first kind of mapping,
we have seen it for a very large number of objects.
Now we will see the collection mapping
and we'll see collection mapping
even with the generics type.
Let's go back to the IDE.
And I'm going to make a test class here
which says
test
collections.
Grab the main method.
And the first thing that I'm gonna do
is I'm going to create a list.
Now this list will be an open list,
which means I can enter any kind of object inside it.
So I'm just going to say new array list.
Okay.
And then I can say objects
dot add.
I can say
JSON-B
and
then I can also say objects dot
add 23
maybe a number.
Basically I can do any stuff.
Objects stored add and I can say
new
user, maybe.
Yeah?
So I'm trying to add different kinds of objects.
And if you want to serialize this list now
using the JSON binding API,
the process is exactly the same, nothing changes there.
So on line 24 I'll create that instance first.
Let's create it directly this time,
I'm going to say JSON-B builder dot create.
And on that I'm gonna change to JSON.
And pass in that list that we created,
the open collection as we say.
And let's do one thing, let's sys out this.
I'm going to cut this out.
And get in the system.out.println
and paste it inside.
Okay.
And if you run this file,
yeah, so this is pretty much simple.
So you see that the list has got serialized
and it is going to be converted into a JSON array,
because that's how JSON understands
when it comes to collections.
So you have the first value, the second value
and the third value is actually a Java object.
So that's how it will serialize.
But this is pretty simple.
What we really want to see is
how will it serialize a list which is of the generics type?
And that is something that we want to see.
So what I will do is
I will go to the data generator class
which already creates a lot of mock data for me.
And I will take lines number 30
to 35
okay, which is the list of products.
And this is a generics kind of a list.
So let's take that.
Go back to test collections.
And I will come down on line 27 and paste it there.
Okay.
Now, what do I do?
I am going to say JSON-B builder
dot create, so create that default JSON-B engine.
And then I say to JSON
and I pass that products list.
Okay?
Now let me collect this string
in a result variable.
Okay.
And now we'll also de-serialize this.
And that's exactly what is important.
During serialization, it is of course going to take in
the entire products list, covert each one of them
as an element of a JSON array
and then print it to the document.
Or print it to the string variable,
wherever you want to collect it.
However, when you de-serialize,
how is that going to work?
So let's understand that.
We're going to say JSON-B
builder again
dot
create
so that'll give us the empty JSON-B engine.
And on that, this time I want to say from JSON.
Now from JSON is going to take this result
which is the serialized products list, okay?
And what is the type this time?
Now this is something that we have to think of.
Okay?
But before this, let's see how did we do it
for the open collection.
So there's an open collection
and there's a generics collection.
The serialization will happen pretty much the same way,
it's going to be a JSON array.
But how does a de-serialization happen
for an open collection, and how does it happen
or how does it behave for a generics collection?
Let's check that out.
So what we'll do is we'll just backtrack a program,
go on line 26
take this line
cut it out and instead of printing it
we'll collect it into a string variable.
Okay.
And we'll also de-serialize, okay?
So we'll say JSON-B builder.
We need this
JSON-B engine every single time
you want to do serialization or de-serialization, whatever.
So say from JSON, pass that open collection,
and the type for this will be
array list
dot class.
Okay?
So what we can do is we can actually sys out this.
So I'm going to say so ut, and take this entire thing
and put it in that sys out statement.
Okay.
So that's how it is for open collection,
but now let's understand how is it going
to work for generics collection.
For that you will have to do something like this.
New
array list
of
product.
And then
we will of course instantiate it.
Then we have a collate pair of braces.
On that we have get class.
And on that we have get generic superclass.
Okay.
So what does this syntax mean?
Let's understand this.
This is a generics list that you're trying to serialize.
Okay, it got serialized, fine.
But when it wants to de-serialize itself,
you'll have to tell the JSON-B engine
that it has to be converted into an array list of products.
In order to do that, the from JSON demands from you
a type as the second argument, right?
The second argument is specified in this way.
So this means that you try to create
and instantiate an anonymous inner class
which extends array list of product, that's number one.
Now on that, when you say get class
it actually gets you that class
which is the anonymous class.
And on that, when you say get generic superclass
then it will return you array list of product,
which is the type that we need
in order to de-serialize the list of products.
So what we're going to do is
we are going to collect this in a list of products.
So once the products are de-serialized,
once that JSON data is de-serialized
we'll say these are the de-serialized products.
And on the next line we'll just print that out.
Okay.
So now let's go ahead and run this.
So there we go.
In the first case, it tried to bring to me the list
which was an open collection.
And in the second, it tried to bring me
that entire array list back, which has got each
individual product object.
Do you see that?
Each individual product object.
So this is because the array list classes
or for that matter all the collection classes
have already implemented the two-string method.
So because of that, it brings you the elements information.
The objects information directly
when you actually print any kind of collection.
So basically when we actually said
system array dot print this list,
the list class is already implemented to a string
because of which variable to see all the product data
right there on the console.
So this is how you can serialize
and de-serialize collections.
Now this rule is generic that I'm about to mention now.
For any kind of serialization that JSON binding
does for you, it could be a field,
it could be a collection, or it could be
any other kind of data structure
everywhere it is going to use the two-string method
on that field, just remember this.
So whenever it tries to serialize
it will use two-string method.